we will go back in time with klein
the historian who dreamed of being a railway
in this machine launched at great
speed we have however encountered at
a still traveler clea flaminia and
historian is passionate about paths
of iron
his thing is to travel back in time
direction the 19th century
I have a very old engraving that
watercolor dating from 1846 which is the
first station the ground is not everything
given and we vote for etam who are there in
currie and these ladies raises the rose
precaution because of walking a little
in the foam and it's a bit complicated
it's very hard judged unworthy of the
capital this first station and shaved
twenty years after its construction for
give way to the current building
an ode to modern travel where every
statue is christened london lille or at
amsterdam from number of destinations
served by the North Network is the
more important he can say the first
lady of strength with obviously that's
party between the old lady of stone and
the man of letters the love story
goes back to childhood
when he discovers the North Station
kleib at age eight and he arrives from his
Great native Brittany to settle
in Paris with his parents
you were crazy in the 50s
the mood was completely different
first the sound atmosphere the sounds of
the steam these monsters he was smoking who
was heating up and there was an atmosphere
to know in smoke the journey on the way of
iron was something extremely healthy
saying trying
at the time to come from london in
boat then by train it was necessary near
12 hours
it takes less than May 2 at the garden of
onlookers yet there is one who
are more interested in the sets than
hero for clyde line at once
historian here son
the train station is a great source
inspired by novelesque
the cema immediately understood
the importance of the station as the
place par excellence and other varieties
separation of the essential points of the
Sudanese tsonga life and when the reality
does not live up to the fiction
klein plays the consultants for
allow filmmakers to reconstruct
an authentic decor
the last one to ask him to
help is called martin scorsese for
his film Hugo Klein sent her
nearly 800 archival documents on the
north station t the third second of the
movie we dive inside the train station
from the north I recognized all the photos
immediately and helped me to go around
I find wonderful for example this
famous hanging clock in which
hugo executives were a hundred and hid in
interior
monitor naggar movements and well
this money never existed forever
in the clock stations suspended ggp
do a lot of the sprain in history
the story of a solid soul
m all but one at the controls of this
miniature locomotive the only railroad
it's clyde & mail to play him
never goes on strike
every day when your job
it's for me an overtaking to do
a way of doing that signals
operate to watch ordered from
cabins
so that's to take care of all this
very delicate little mechanics and
capricious who is resting
the banks are thinking
and finally I will change my signal
hurting the trains
hull all they are enlightened
it's true that in the evening I can
also maneuver and sharpening bias
here I am still in a night guard
the night in best and play at the small
train for live
so it's a very serious case in
40 years the historian ended up transforming
his apartment in a museum dedicated staff
to the glory of the trains that made the
great hours from the north station of the
last steam locomotive
nicknamed the divine this is a
perfect model
yes and she can actually walk to the
steam to the railcar that achieves a
exploit by putting Lille at three o'clock
of paris has risen if we can say to
the time of the 30s his home north
by the way
here is the most legendary train
Here we are here to train you
throws of a French train of 1928 which
represents with ac of accuracy the
famous train the golden arrow the north
was the most beautiful or full network
speed prestige cleanliness of the trains
Accuracy it was our disgust China
tags it still remains
some but that's not why
that klein comes to the station
today
p funk shit normally it's
modern mechanics hello
computing little rendezvous in
will find railways for a
guided tour of what we will call you
the marina back shop
I already had a very
a long time and we will have for 150 years
it is in these warehouses that all
northern trains were serviced
mended
it's that silence a year ago
the building was abandoned for
more functional premises and lend to
associations that restore old
trains on the arts of northern paris
what a collection of material from
several associations that are rhdp here
so natural with 6180 he known as the
name of little gray this is the last
retired at the train station
North
here also some of the most evil is born
in the 1960s when it came out
they symbolized in spite of herself
then what I would call time
rowing that morning the progress was
absolutely hate and symbolize it
which we called the metro feeds you only
it's not metro but for people
powerful were young of the facts his
universe
here we can not advance in the
first car that will control in
the flow agrees the first class
today restore the old trains of
suburb will allow clyde to
Make a dream come true
how
can we put the contact will only be
installed on the handles of the machine
there was light
ok I'm like a child who
revive his childhood because the Maghreb
played but rarely has it but that's
true that a toy like this one size
nature makes me dream it's like we say
heavy but indestructible
magnificent
before becoming a brilliant
academic kleib would have liked to
slip into the shoes of a railway worker to
his 76 years the little gray and finally offers
this chance